too frightening developments out of
Syria at this hour we are hearing
reports that the regime has begun moving
chemical weapons a senior defense
official quoted as saying the activity
started in just the last few days and
seconds ago a strong warning directly
from the White House earlier today
Secretary of State Clinton publicly
warned Bashar Assad's regime not to use
chemical weapons on their own people or
the United States will be forced to act
this comes after a weekend of terrible
violence in Syria this is video we
received on Saturday small towns being
bombarded by government mortars and
missiles sending innocent families women
and small children once again running
for their lives a short time ago the
United Nations announced it is
withdrawing all non-essential personnel
from that country as the possible threat
of chemical warfare now looms look at
these families look at us along with an
active chemical weapons program Syria
has ballistic missiles to spread the
deadly gas it is believed to be one of
the world's largest programs according
to the CIA the regime has vast amounts
of mustard gas sarin nerve agent and
cyanide all designed to cause painful
death this from the white house briefing
moments ago as the opposition makes
strategic advances and grows in strength
the Assad regime has been unable to halt
the opposition's progress through
conventional means and we are concerned
that in an increasingly beleaguered
regime having found its escalation of
violence through conventional means
inadequate might be considering the use
of chemical weapons against the Syrian
people and as the president has said any
use or proliferation of chemical weapons
by the Syrian regime would cross a red
line for the United States ambassador
welcome back the situation seems to be
going from bad to worse in Syria and and
Assad continues the massacre of his own
people and now we are supposed to
believe as things continue spiraling
downward in that nation that what we're
supposed to trust him that he won't do
it as he feels his grip on power
loosening well I think it's entirely
possible that Assad would use chemical
weapons especially if he thinks it's
that
that or the collapse of his regime there
there are other less threatening
explanations he's just moving the
weapons or the agent out of range of the
opposition or is preparing for a nun
clave strategy if the country itself
falls apart but you know the United
States and Western options are kind of
difficult here since if if Assad does
begun begin to use the chemical agent
our people on the ground would be at
risk and it's it's hard to see exactly
what the administration is planning so
whether it's threat actually moves aside
to change his policy is is hard to judge
at this point look at this look at these
children running running for their lives
and we've seen this I mean I I'm I'm
just disgusted by how many times we've
seen this ambassador Bolton I get one
more report about a child being tortured
to death in Syria children children are
being tortured and killed by this regime
and not and now we've had al Qaeda
exploiting the power vacuum and doing
killing of its own but now you got
reports that that there are quote
worrying signs of activity when it comes
to these chemical weapons in the last
few days and you tell me what the United
States is going to do if this lunatic is
about to unleash sarin nerve gas on
these kids yeah well of course we had
seen regimes in the Middle East used
chemical weapons against their own
people Sodom Hussein used it against the
Kurds in Iraq Amnesty International has
reported years ago that Hafez al-assad
Bashar al-assad's father used chemical
weapons in the Hama massacre some
decades ago so again it's not at all
surprising and I have to say the
administration must have pretty concrete
intelligence that the Assad is doing
things that make it possible for him to
use these weapons but as you also
indicated the opposition's record on
human rights violations isn't exactly
sterling and I would worry that if they
get their hands on the chemical weapons
at least some of them the al-qaeda
sympathizers in particular might use
them in Syria or might take them away
for terrorists use elsewhere so it is a
very
very dangerous situation there's no
doubt about that there's few in fewer
and fewer noble players over there it
started as you know sort of real people
who didn't want to be under this man's
thumb in every manner of their lives
anymore but it's become something very
different as al-qaeda and other
terrorists have sought to take advantage
of the of the unrest their ambassador
what could we do I mean if we really
think he's about to use chemical weapons
maybe not today maybe not tomorrow but
if we're getting this concerned about it
and we're saying that's a red line that
was hillary clinton's term what does
that mean well for American options I
think they're actually fairly limited
and they're all dangerous that one is to
destroy the chemical weapons in place
whether through aerial attack or special
operations forces on the ground that
obviously puts people at risk it's not
easy to destroy this agent of these
weapons the other would be to try and
capture supplies of the weapons and get
them out of the country that's also very
dangerous in the middle of a civil war
so it's a it's a very dicey proposition
for the United States and I believe
other NATO countries and neighboring
states like Turkey and Jordan that that
may be involved as well very late to be
worrying about this at this point what
of NATO I mean this this has to be
something that would get the attention
of the international community and not
just America well I think the Turks are
already very worried the Jordanians and
Israelis as well i think in cooperation
with france and britain and perhaps
other nato countries we have clearly
been planning for contingency operations
and it may simply be that whatever it is
that the administration is uncovered
about what Assad is doing with his
chemical weapons stockpiles were at the
point where a decision is going to have
to be made I mean if they're really that
worried I don't think we should wait
until Assad start using them we have to
consider doing something to prevent
their use because if he unleashes
chemical weapons against the opposition
and he eventually falls the prospects of
an opposition bloodbath which are
already very high I think become
overwhelming before I let you go just
just to reiterate you don't think that
Bashar Assad is
incapable of this I mean you believe
he's capable of it because when I'd
speak of the torture we've done reports
on you know the bodies lined up one
after the other people with their arms
tied behind their back just murdered in
cold blood and children nine year olds
being shot in the head as their parents
watch and then other children made to
watch as their parents are murdered in
front of them and babies i mean the
reports go on and on and are too
gruesome for 1 p.m. eastern time
ambassador but just so our viewers know
you believe this man is capable of
unleashing chemical weaponry weaponry on
his own people oh absolutely I don't
think he would hesitate if he thought it
was that or the end of his regime and
his end as well I think it would be
second nature doing